Welcome to Learning How to Learn. Your brain has amazing abilities, but it
didn't come with an instruction manual. Perhaps the greatest gift that our
brains give us is the ability to learn new things every day. On my way here, I
thought about the journey that will take us to the last day of the course, and
how much we will learn along the way. Our goal is to give you a better
understanding of how we learn, so that your brain becomes a better learner.
These insights are based on solid research from neuroscience, from cognitive
psychology, and also from dozens of leading instructors and practitioners in
difficult-to-learn subjects. Whether you're a novice or an expert, you will find
great new ways to improve your skills and techniques for learning, especially
related to math and science. This course is meant to help you reframe how you
think about learning, to help reduce your frustration, and increase your
understanding. We approach things a little differently. You're not expected to
have an in-depth background in any particular subject. Instead, you're expected
to take these ideas and apply them to whatever subject you're trying to learn or
improve in, to help you learn more deeply, effectively, and with less
frustration. You'll hear experts from a variety of different disciplines talking
about their best tips for learning more effectively. You can benefit from these
ideas whether you're struggling in high school or soaring through math and
science at graduate levels at a university. I'm a co-director of a Science and
Learning Center that is sponsored by the National Science Foundation based here
in La Jolla. In recent years, we've made great strides from research and
discovering how to learn most effectively. Finding a way to simply and
effectively share these ideas with you has been a big undertaking, but we feel
it's well worth doing. You will see that many of these ideas, although simple,
are incredibly powerful. And along the way, we will also learn a lot in the
process of teaching you. You'll see how you can fool yourself about whether you
actually know the material. You'll discover new ways to hold your focus and
embed the material more deeply and powerfully in your mind, and you'll learn to
condense key ideas you're learning about, so you can grasp them more easily.
Master the simple practical approaches outlined here, including simple tips to
help prevent procrastination, and you'll be able to learn more effectively and
with less frustration. This course is meant to enrich both your learning and
your life. You'll be able to get what you want from this material. So, welcome
to the course and happy learning